ANTH 3112
North American Ethnography
This course studies change and continuity in the cultures and histories of North America's First Nations from the fifteenth century until modern times.

ANTH 3283
Sex and Gender
Humans and other primates will be covered in this course. This course introduces students to an anthropological perspective on the relationship between sex, the biological attributes by which a person is perceived to be male or female, and gender or the ideals and practices associating roles, behaviors and sexualities with men or women. In this course, the students will learn genetic mechanisms of sexual differentiation and how genetic, chromosomal and hormonal factors make males masculine, females feminine, and occasionally vice versa. We will also consider how differences in male and female reproductive biology and physical appearance relate to mate choice and sexual selection.

ANTH 5255
Race and Culture
This course will view the crucial human question of race, using the insights of social science, biological science, and history. What is race? Does it even exist? How is race treated in different cultures? What is the history of racism? Emphasis will be placed on the American experience, but will use worldwide examples for comparison.

ARTH 3070
Asian American Art
The course focuses on the intersections of art, displacement, and diaspora through the lens of American visual culture. Accordingly, this course takes the historical and current experience of Asian Americans as a framework to visualize and analyze artistic creativity and media representation within the context of a specific racial and ethnic minority group in the United States. By studying fine art, commercial images, documentary photography, the built environment, and popular media, our goal is to critique the potential of images to create bias as well as to question power structures of race, class, and gender. Topics include Chinatowns and Japanese interment camps as sites of art making, and modern and contemporary artists of the Asian American diaspora.

BIOL 1010
Biology in the 21st Century
Understanding science is central to informing policies, driving innovations, and evaluating ethical considerations relevant to life on Earth. This course examines the interplay between science and society. The full spectrum of the human experience, from sex, gender, and health, to race, evolution, and environmental change will be explored. Case studies, short readings, and videos, relevant to life in the 21st century, will be referenced throughout the course.

CLCS 4325
Hyphenated Lives: Muslim-Americans in the U.S.
In this course, we will learn the basic tenets and early history of Islam, and study Islam in America, with attention to the current issues facing Muslim-Americans in the U.S. Five issues that we will especially focus on in reading and discussing Muslim-Americans' lives will be issues of identity, religion, race, nationality, and ethnicity. Our study of this urgent topic will be against the backdrop of misperceptions and stereotyping of Muslims by the mainstream media, especially since 9/11, as well as the targeting of Muslims as terrorists. This course is taught in English.

CMP 4600 
The Just City
Students will explore historical and contemporary literature on the elements required to equitably preserve and distribute social, environmental and economic resources in cities. Subjects will include land and property ownership, the distribution of resources including food, water and shelter, the challenges of gentrification and eminent domain, the ways that race and gender affects policy and governmental procedures in urban areas, equal access to mobility, education and health systems and other resources needed to achieve equity within diverse populations.

COMM 3070
Communication and Gender
Introduces basic communication concepts. Demonstrates the negotiation of gender roles in everyday communicative interaction including dyadic, small group, and public address contexts.

COMM 3190 
Intercultural Communication
Systematic study of communication processes that involve contact and interaction between people of different cultures. Readings, exercises, assignments, and electronic media contribute to understanding intercultural processes.

CRIM 3565
Women and Crime
Historically, women have been excluded from the criminological discussion. This course examines women's experiences with crime and the criminal justice system. The course covers female offenders and their treatment by the criminal justice system, female victims of crime, and female employees of the agencies of the criminal justice system and their experiences. The goal of the course is to explore all aspects of women and crime and for the students to develop an understanding of these issues and why they are important.

CSD 2600 
Serving Diverse Populations with Communication Needs
This course examines the many factors to consider when serving culturally and linguistically diverse (CLD) individuals with communication needs. Learner outcomes will focus on achieving a deeper understanding of varying linguistic and cultural mores within various ethnic minority and underrepresented populations including those who identify as LGBTQ+ and/or Deaf. In addition, content will address barriers many of these individuals face when accessing educational and medical services. Learning experiences provide students with community-based, hands-on experiences when serving these populations locally and globally.

DANC 1010 
Dance in Culture
This course is designed for nonmajors, and is designated as a Fine Arts Foundation course. The course provides an introduction to and fundamental understanding of dance as a means of cultural expression.

DANC 1013 
History of Hip-Hop
This course is designed for non-majors and is designated as a Fine Arts Foundation and Diversity course. The course introduces students to a basic understanding of Hip-Hop history and culture, and its elemental ties to art, poetry, music and particularly dance.

DISAB 3000
Introduction to Disability Studies
What is disability, and how did we come to know and feel what we think we know and feel about this realm of knowledge and lived experience? Cultural ideals of beauty, youth, fitness, strength, sex appeal, social skill, mental acuity, and “health” all rely on norms of able-bodiedness, heterosexuality, and whiteness. We will thus approach disability not as fixed or singular category, but as a fluid, historically shifting, culturally-specific formation that intersects with race, class, gender, sexuality, size, and more. How do some bodies, minds, and psyches come to be seen as deviant and others as normal? What are the conditions and relationships of power that form the context for these processes? Which cultural institutions have historically disciplined disabled subjects? What legacies of resistance might we find in various forms of art and cultural production; in movements for social justice; and in feminist disability studies scholarship? Where can we look for models of kinship and community structures based on practices of interdependence rather than individual rights? We will approach these questions through a range of critical essays, novels, films, artwork, and community engagement.

ECON 2040
The Political Economy of Race, Class and Gender
The class covers the evolution of race, ethnicity, class, and gender in the context of capitalist development and modern market economies. Topics concern the persistence of inequalities in opportunities and outcomes among members of different groups, and how market forces and public policies interact with these tendencies.

ECON 5170 
Feminist Economics
The feminist economics project provides a critique of standard economics from a gender-aware perspective and proposes alternative conceptualizations of the economy, economic agency, work, and well-being. After reviewing the basic features of this critique and the alternative approach, the course examines theories and evidence on the causes and consequences of contemporary gender inequalities in how people secure their livelihoods in the US. The third part focuses on policies implemented or proposed to address gender inequalities in the household and in the labor market—anti-discrimination, workplace, anti-poverty, work-family balance, and macroeconomic policies. Graduate students should register for ECON 6170 and will be held to higher standards and/or additional work.

ECS 3180
Community-Engaged Education with Multilingual Communities
This course provides the theoretical foundations of community-based multilingual multicultural education and critical community engagement approaches and applies these theories to practice in building partnerships specifically with multilingual families and communities to address community-identified educational priorities for multilingual learners. Field work is a required component of the course.

ECS 4111 
School and Society
Explores the social and institutional context of schooling. Addresses history of education; anthropology and sociology of education; and philosophy of education. Focuses on issues of diversity, including policy, curriculum, pedagogy and relationships.

ED PS3010
Indentity and Inclusivity
Introduction to multicultural issues involved in human connections. Emphasis is placed upon understanding the role external factors play in the lives of people and their interactions, depending on their intersecting identities. Students gain skills in reflexiveness related to the interacting influences of self, relationships, and society.

ENGL 2610
Diversity in American Literature
Readings in American literature emphasizing works by and about diverse cultural groups.

ENGL 3770
Chicana/o Literature
Chicana/o literature from its beginning in oral tradition (tales, ballads, folkdrama) to contemporary fiction, poetry, and drama. Reading knowledge of Spanish is helpful, but all texts written in English or translated.

ETHNC 2500
Introduction to Ethnic Studies
Interdisciplinary examination of areas related to ethnicity, race, culture, and other intersections.

ETHNC 2510
Diversity Scholars: Land and Labor
Land and labor make all of our lives possible. This course centers the people whose labor supports our lives and the lands which nourish our survival. It is a people’s history course of our society that centers working class people, people of color, and indigenous peoples. Course material delves into the history of U.S. land management and labor practices which have produced a deeply unequal social and economic system. Through exploring systems such as chattel slavery, native dispossession, colonization, industrialization, and migrant labor, students will explore the ways in which power over land and labor is deeply tied to race, gender, and class. This course also centers the ways in which people of color, indigenous peoples, and workers collectively organize to transform their conditions and build more just and equitable societies. Students will also take part in a semester-long community-engaged learning component in which they connect course themes to their work at a community site. We hope students will leave with more food for thought on the following question: How can land and labor sustain us all equally and equitably?

ETHNC 2550
Introduction to Black Studies
This course explores the historical roots, key debates, and defining contributions of Black Studies. Students will learn about the contributions of anti-colonial and Black liberation movements globally, explore Black histories, identities, and cultural expressions, with an emphasis on racial justice, abolition, Black joy, and futurity.

ETHNC 2560
Introduction to Chicanx/Latine Studies
This course offers historical and contemporary insights into Mexican, Puerto Rican, Cuban, Dominican, Central American, and South American people in the United States. Using an intersectional Latinidad theoretical perspective, students examine how race, ethnicity, indigeneity, citizenship, gender, class, religiosity, language, sexuality, and other identities shape daily life, institutions, and society. Topics covered include but are not limited to settler colonialism, socioeconomic status, immigration, Latinx belonging, Latine feminisms, intersectionality, racism, discrimination, civil rights social movements, coalition, and community. This course also offers opportunities to discuss comparative phenomenon in the US and globally.

ETHNC 2570
Introduction to Native American and Indigenous Studies
This interdisciplinary course provides an overview of Native American and Indigenous histories, cultures, and contemporary issues, while focusing on key themes such as sovereignty, settler colonialism, environmental justice, cultural revitalization, and Indigenous resistance. Students will explore a variety of materials to understand how Indigenous peoples have navigated settler colonialism and articulated visions for self-determination. Emphasis will be placed on centering Indigenous voices, worldviews, and epistemologies, while critically examining intersections of gender, race, and land. This course encourages students to think critically about resilience, identity, and the ongoing impacts of colonization in a global context. 

ETHNC 2580
Introduction to Asian American Studies
Introduction to Asian American Studies prepares students for understanding the journey of Asian immigrant groups (and subsequent American‐born generations) as they have settled in the Americas since the 1700s. Issues addressed include the formation of ethnic communities, labor, role of the state and institutions, race relations, politics, gender and sexuality, and culture and identity. Topics may also include anti-Asian hate crimes, affirmative action debates, and popular culture.

ETHNC 2590
Introduction to Pacific Islands Studies
This course introduces students to the Pacific region, and broad historical and contemporary, geographical, social, and cultural issues. It will provide an introduction to theoretical tools that we can use to think about the Pacific region and its peoples. 

ETHNC 3365 
Ethnic Minorities in America
This course explores how ethnic minority populations navigate a range of political, economic, and legal circumstances in the United States. The class lectures and readings consider the diverse and sometimes overlapping experiences of different ethnic/racial groups and address subjects such as: Immigration, Language, Science, Education, Media, and Social Justice. Applying a sociological lens, we will pay attention to the historical and contemporary ways that ideas about ethnicity are instituted, circulated, and made meaningful in society. We will also examine the intersections of class, gender, and sexuality in the lives of ethnic minority populations and discuss how people work to eradicate inequalities within and between ethnic minority subgroups in America.


FCS 3290
Race, Ethnicity and Family Diversity
This course examines how race and ethnicity shape and structure family life in the United States. Utilizing a multidisciplinary lens, as well as theoretical and empirical research, students will analyze the diversity among major racial and ethnic groups, including Latinx, Black, Asian American, Native American, Anglo American and multiracial families. In addition to examining the respective cultures, heritage, and strategies for resilience, students will explore the challenges facing families due to marginalization and the potential of social and public policies for addressing these challenges.

FCS 5180
Autism Across the Lifespan
This course examines the experiences of people with autism spectrum disorder in each major life stage. Drawing on local, multidisciplinary and inter-professional expertise, students will be presented with a variety of perspectives, and offer a balanced and supportive overview of autism issues, the impact on family and community, and contemporary issues related to disability, advocacy, and policy.

FILM 2240 
Diversity in Film and Media
An introduction to issues of diversity in U.S. film and media, this course takes a comprehensive view of the industrial, sociological, and aesthetic factors that have shaped and continue to shape film and media representations of race, class, gender, sexuality, and disability/ability.

GEOG 3620 
North America: Geography, Diversity, and Change
This course examines North America from three points of view: its physical character, the human societies that constitute it, and its distinctive regions. Interwoven in the course is a focus on how discrimination and oppression have affected different groups of people in North America and how those experiences shape contemporary social inequalities. The course canvasses each region comprising North America with a primary focus on the United States, considering the physical setting, processes of political and economic development, and the emergence and dynamism of distinctive identities, values, cultural characteristics, and social and environmental problems. The course encourages each student to appreciate diversity and challenges them to deepen their understanding of how privilege in North American society shapes their perceptions of, and interactions with, people who have different perspectives.

GERON 3005
Aging Across Communities & Cultures
Students will enhance their intellectual skills and develop a deeper sense of personal and social responsibility, through exploration of diversity in US society and culture; creative reflection on their own identities and relationships; cross-cultural awareness of equality, justice, progress, and freedom; and the study of ethical issues from proficient perspectives. The course will focus on diversity and expose students to some of the multicultural factors that contribute to the life-course: the socialization differences and the “life-chance” differences that may follow ethnic, racial and/or minority status, including gender. GERON 3005 meets with GERON 5005. GERON 3005 is the undergraduate level course for Diversity and Aging; GERON 5005 is the graduate level course. The courses differ slightly as they align with their respective undergraduate and graduate objectives and assignments. Please be sure you register for the correct course level.

GLOBL 1600 
Teaching and Learning Across Languages
This course brings together native and non-native speakers of English to explore the theory and practice of communication across languages and cultures.

GNDR 1100
Gender and Social Change
Introduces students to the study of gender as a socially significant category and identity. Explores key concepts, theories, and methods that analyze gender in relation to race, class, sexuality, ability, religion, and nation. Draws on these frameworks and debates to consider the dynamics of social change. 

GNDR 2040
The Political Economy of Race, Class and Gender
The class covers the evolution of race, ethnicity, class, and gender in the context of capitalist development and modern market economies. Topics concern the persistence of inequalities in opportunities and outcomes among members of different groups, and how market forces and public policies interact with these tendencies.

GNDR 2500
Feminist Ways of Remembering
In this course, students will learn about the history of feminist social movements in the United States. We will explore the ideological, social, and political origins of feminism in the US, critical moments in U.S. feminist history, and how we build upon feminist history to live feminist lives in the future.

GNDR 3040
Psychology of Gender
Developmental investigation of psychological character of women and men. Childhood, adolescence, relationship formation, middle years, and old age from the perspectives of female and male psychological experiences.

PHIL 3080
Philosophical Issues in Feminism
Introduction to theoretical and applied issues in feminism. Topics include theories of gender, feminist critiques of science, pornography, and abortion.

GNDR 3337
Sociology of Gender and Sexuality
Through readings, lectures, discussions, and film, students explore theories and research on sex and gender differences, gender inequality, and sexuality across societies. Using a sociological lens, students examine how gender and gender inequality shape, and are shaped by, a variety of institutions, such as families, schools, and the workplace. The course also addresses how gender is implicated in cultural definitions of work, violence, intimacy, sexuality, physical attractiveness, and other social phenomena.

SOC 3380
Social Inequality: Disadvantage in the Land of Opportunity
This course examines the degree of inequality along characteristics such as race, ethnicity, class, gender, age, physical ability, and sexual orientation. By describing trends over time within the United States, this class uses a comparative approach to emphasize the societal factors that explain why some groups suffer economic, political, and social (dis)advantage relative to other groups. Students will be encourages to think critically about the ways that these advantages and disadvantages are reproduced both intentionally and inadvertently through actions and interactions at the individual, organizational, and institutional levels.

GNDR 2000
Introduction to LGBTQ Studies: Finding Out
This is a survey class working with the ways that LGBTQ people have been represented, and have represented themselves, in a variety of fields including history, politics, media, literature, the arts, and sciences. As such, much attention will be paid to critical readings of stories and theories that introduce, shape, and push LGBTQ studies as a field.

GNDR 3573
Queer Representation in Media
Queer Representations In Media: Traditional, New, and Fan-made examines how LGBTQ+ people are portrayed in traditionally published media, Internet-based/new media, and fan-made media, such as fanfiction. The course examines books, movies, television, comic books, animated films and TV shows, webseries, and fanfiction alongside academic texts, and uses Media Studies, Literary Theory, and Queer Theory to ground readings of pop culture in academic analysis. Topics covered include the politics of media publication, the quality of content generated by queer and non-queer creators, and the limits placed on queer identities in media in the form tropes and genres. Students will be encouraged to think critically about whose media/media analysis are considered legitimate and explore their own relationship to the media they consume.

H EDU5300 
Diversity and Health
This course is designed to explore and impart knowledge concerning topics related to the social, psychological, historical and contemporary health of diverse populations. Students will increase their awareness of their own and others? physical, mental and social health issues ? recognizing and acknowledging internalized bias and prejudice.

HIST 4671
American Indian History to 1850: Precontact to Indian Removal
This course examines critical topics in American Indian history from the re-contact period through the era of Indian Removal (1840s).

HIST 4690
African American History: 1619-1890
Addresses the African background of contemporary African Americans and analyzes the emergence of African American culture. Also describes the evolution of slavery and the dilemma slavery posed to the American Revolution generation. Other subjects include Blacks in slavery, the role of Blacks in the quest for freedom, the growth of pre-Civil War northern Black communities, the Civil War and Reconstruction Era.

HIST 4700
African American History Since 1890
Examines the emergence of segregation, the alternative strategies advanced by Ida B. Wells, Booker T. Washington, and W.E.B. DuBois, the 20th-century Great Migration, and the subsequent urban political/sociocultural movements of the 1910s and 1930s, World War II, the rise of militancy as manifested in Black Power, the state of inter- and intra-race relations since the 1970s.

HIST 4710 
The Concept of Race in America
Considers the concept of race from the angle of intellectual history.

HONOR 2455
Social Determinants of Health
The conditions in which people are born, live, work, and learn shape a wide range of health risks and outcomes. In this class, we will explore disparities in health across communities and population groups, and seek to understand the social, economic, and political structures that foster these inequities. We will apply what we learn about social determinants of health to consider interventions across the ecological framework that have the potential to improve individual and population health.

HPSCI 3950
History of Women in Science, Technology, and Medicine
Course will look at the contributions of women in the fields of science, technology, and medicine.

LING 2600
Cross-Cultural Communication
Explores the theory and practice of communication across languages and cultures to increase understanding of cultural differences that influence communication and enhance appreciation of the diverse ways of communicating in different cultures. Topics may include: language and identity, verbal communication, non verbal communication, perception, cultural values, history and its cultural impact, and worldview.

MG EN2200
Utah's Mining Industry: Mines, Mining Towns and Their People
The course is a historic overview of Utah's mining industry, with a central focus on the varied ethnic and racial composition of the industry's workforce. The course will address how the diverse mining workforce adapted to the physical and cultural climate of Utah, and how the diversity of that workforce is still manifest in Utah today.

MGT 1030
Responsibilities of Business Leaders
This immersive course surveys the ethical and inclusive leadership skills necessary in our changing global business environment. Delve into topics such as ethical decision-making, sustainable innovation, cultural competency, stakeholder management, employee-wellbeing, and fostering an inclusive work environment. Attendance and participation are core components of this course, as students will engage in real-world case discussions, group simulations, and constructive debates. Students will practice navigating complex ethical dilemmas, understanding and appreciating diverse viewpoints, and strategizing solutions for a wide variety of stakeholders. Develop the skills to become a principled and effective leader of tomorrow.

MUSC 1236
Survey of Jazz
Survey of Jazz teaches the history and evolution of the art form jazz, and integrates these concepts with cultural, sociological, political, technological, and musical factors. The course exposes students in unique and creative ways to the process in which jazz musicians manipulate musical elements. The relationship between jazz and African American culture is inseparable and complementary, and is a major emphasis of the course. This is a lower-division survey course with a focus on diversity, designed for the non-major as well as the music major.

PHIL 3380
Feminist Philosophy of Science
Feminist philosophy of science has had a major impact on ideas about knowledge, objectivity, biology, and the brain. The relation between feminism and science is complex, as women have traditionally been excluded from scientific institutions and activities, or relegated to subordinate roles. The range of feminist responses to science engages fundamental philosophical questions: How does the ideal of knowledge relate to actual human practices? Is truly objective knowledge possible? What is the relation between the mind and the (sexed) body? Are categories of sex and gender essential – and what could this mean, given what we know about biology? This course examines central topics and key works in feminist philosophy of science, highlighting the major debates and broader impacts on philosophy and science.

PHIL 3870
Philosophy of Race
Discussion of race.

PHYS 3375
Women in Physics and Their Scientific Contributions
This course will make a survey of the lives and works of important women physicists of the past. We will start with the first woman faculty member in a European university: Laura Bassi (University of Bologna, 1732). Others to be included are Curie, Meitner, Franklin, Wu. The course will attempt to teach, mostly at a conceptual level, the basic physics topics associated with the achievements of these women, and to seek to place their contributions in the larger context of the advent of Modern science and Technology.

POLS 3140
Gender and Politics
Impact of gender in the political system; law and public policy, electoral behavior and professions.

POLS 3190
Racial and Ethnic Politics
Role of Blacks, Latinos, American Indians, and Asian Pacific Americans in American politics. Topics include constitutional status, citizenship, equality, identity, adaptation, suffrage, participation, representation, coalition, and conflict.

PRT 3310
Diversity and Inclusion in Parks, Recreation, and Tourism
This course provides students with knowledge, attitude awareness, and resources needed to understand how to effectively deliver programs and services to people from diverse backgrounds. Students will gain new perspectives that address the various ways that age, race, ethnicity, sexual identity, class, and ability impact the recreation, leisure, and sports experience in the United States. This course will help students cultivate cultural competency and appreciation of these different perspectives. It is intended to enhance understanding and ability to work with diverse populations. This course fulfills the University Diversity requirement.

PSY 3040
Psychology of Gender
Developmental investigation of psychological character of women and men. Childhood, adolescence, relationship formation, middle years, and old age from the perspectives of female and male psychological experiences.

PSY 3245
Human Sexuality in a World of Diversity
The purpose of this course is to provide a basic understanding of the academic and scientific study of human sexuality, with a heavy emphasis on diversity in human sexuality. Human sexuality is examined from multiple perspectives, ranging from the biological through psychological, as well as cultural, medical, ethical and legal issues. The course is intended to provide an in-depth, advanced-level understanding of the foundations and diversity of human sexuality.

PSY 3450
Cross-Cultural Psychology
The study of cultural influences on psychological processes. Psychological theory and research on how values, norms, behavior, socialization, relationships, and cognition vary across cultures.

SCI 3900
Being Human in STEM
The goal of the Being Human in STEM class is to create a space for dialogue between STEM students and STEM faculty to investigate together the theme of diversity and climate within STEM. The course combines academic inquiry and individual stories to understand how students’ identities shape their experience in STEM. The course has two components that are intertwined throughout the semester: 1) Reading and discussion: during one of the two weekly class meetings, we ground our understanding through critical reading of primary scholarly research as well as media sources (e.g. podcasts, films); occasionally we’ll welcome guests to enrich and inform our discussions. Example topics include implicit bias, stereotype threat, imposter syndrome, antiracism, intersectionality, as well as the role in STEM of gender, race, LGBTQIA+ identity, dis/ability, and many others. 2) Project development: the other weekly class meeting is devoted to the design, execution, and evaluation of interventions led by the students with the goal of improving the experience of STEM students at the U. At the end of the semester, students present their group projects to the campus community via a public event.This course is aimed at students across STEM fields and pre-medical students. Students who don't have major status but are interested in the course may be approved upon the instructor's consent.Find out more about the class on the website: https://csme.utah.edu/beinghumaninstem/The course is part of a national initiative. Learn more at: http://www.beinghumaninstem.com/

SOC 2630
Ethnic Minorities in America
This course explores how ethnic minority populations navigate a range of political, economic, and legal circumstances in the United States. The class lectures and readings consider the diverse and sometimes overlapping experiences of different ethnic/racial groups and address subjects such as: Immigration, Law, Science, Environment, Education, Media, Food, and Social Justice. Applying a sociological lens, we will pay attention to the historical and contemporary ways that ideas about race and ethnicity are instituted, circulated, and made meaningful in society. We will also examine the intersections of class, gender, and sexuality in the lives of ethnic minority populations and will discuss how people work to eradicate inequalities.

SOC 3337
Sociology of Gender and Sexuality
Through readings, lectures, discussions, and film, students explore theories and research on sex and gender differences, gender inequality, and sexuality across societies. Using a sociological lens, students examine how gender and gender inequality shape, and are shaped by, a variety of institutions, such as families, schools, and the workplace. The course also addresses how gender is implicated in cultural definitions of work, violence, intimacy, sexuality, physical attractiveness, and other social phenomena.

SOC 3381
Exploring Social Inequality through Music & Film
During the election campaign for President Barack Obama, our forty fourth President and our first African American President, one of candidate Obama's famous campaign mantras were the words "Yes We Can!" Soon the catch-phrase, reminiscent of other calls to action such as "we shall overcome" and "si se puede" for underserved populations and populations of color in U.S. history facing issues of social inequality, became a popular music video released by hip-hop musician and rapper Will.i.am. This wedding of issues of social inequality in U.S. politics and society with popular culture media such as music and film is the central focus of this course. Fundamentally, this course is a historical, theoretical, and ultimately, sociological exploration of race, ethnicity, class, and gender as axes of inequality in the United States, through the lens of music and film media. Materials examine the interaction between personal experiences and social structures as students explore how individuals carry varying degrees of penalty and privilege depending on their position within a complex matrix along axes of race, ethnicity, class, and gender that affects everyone in society. Students will be invited to explore the ways that people experience and respond to the matrix, that is, structures of racial/ethnic, class, and gender inequality, and the ways that people help to reinforce and reshape those structures.

SOC 3565
Women and Crime
Historically, women have been excluded from the criminological discussion. This course examines women's experiences with crime and the criminal justice system. The course covers female offenders and their treatment by the criminal justice system, female victims of crime, and female employees of the agencies of the criminal justice system and their experiences. The goal of the course is to explore all aspects of women and crime and for the students to develop an understanding of these issues and why they are important.

SP ED2010
Human Exceptionality
Understanding people with learning, behavior, sensory, and physical differences. Emphasis on examining the effects of culture and societal values on the inclusion of people with disabilities in home, school, and community settings. Students enrolled in SP ED 5010 will be held to a higher standard of performance and may be assigned additional work.

SW 3550
Social Diversity and Cultural Understanding
This course explores the many different definitions of diversity and the different realities and impact of how diversity functions in the United States. It will explore how certain individuals, groups, and communities in the United States have experienced unique social, economic, and political subordination relative to the institutional frameworks of the dominant majority. Consistent with the social justice traditions of the social work profession, this course will look at the ways in which practitioners seek to deal with the abuses experienced by individuals and families and to ensure that all individuals have an equal opportunity to develop and prosper free of discrimination, oppression, privilege, victimization, and exploitation. Additionally, this course will examine the adaptive capabilities and strengths of marginalized groups and how such capabilities and strengths can be used in effective social work practice.

THEA 1760
American Political Theatre
Open to all students. A political play depicts individuals who, by dint of being identified as part of a social group, receive unfair treatment based upon a generally accepted system of laws, values, or way of doing things. The "system" may be legal, bureaucratic, ideological, nationalistic, religious, racial, gender-based, or the reflection of communal values, but it is usually unchallenged. The plays studied are written by U.S. playwrights, largely in the 21st century, and include, among others, such subjects as the rise of the Alt-Right, women in the workplace, anti-Muslim discrimination, and racially segregated housing.

THEA 1770
The American Experience Through Black Theatre
Open to all students. This course explores perspectives of historical and contemporary American society from a minority viewpoint through reading and analyzing plays written by Black authors from antebellum times to the present. The course examines works by African-American dramatists, and it compares these with a body of plays that shaped the popular image of Black life in America and in many cases perpetuated negative stereotypes of African-Americans.

THEA 3792
Queer Theatre
Queer Theatre asks students to contemplate the relationship between American drama written by LGBTQ+ playwrights and the ever-evolving U.S. culture these plays reflect.

UGS 3400
The World of Children's Literature
Explore the world of children's literature from Where the Wild Things Are to Harry Potter and beyond! This course looks broadly at children's literature from writing to publishing to its many reading audiences. Students will read and critique children's and young adult literature while considering the cultural, social, economic and historical forces at play in its development, with special attention to issues of diversity and authenticity. Students in this course will have the opportunity to engage in small group conversations with nationally recognized authors, illustrators and academic visiting as part of the campus-wide World of Children's Literature lecture series.

WRTG 3800
Everyday Rhetorics: Health, Food, and Environment
When we think of health, we often think of illness. This course goes beyond the discussion of health as illness and looks at health as access, who has it, and under what conditions. In this course, students are encouraged to examine how their experiences and understandings of health, food, and environment are mediated by networks of disparities.

WRTG 3890
Rhetorical and Critical Methods
This course takes seriously the idea students are researchers--reading, inquiring into, crafting questions for, and developing tools and strategies to answer questions about the everyday. In it, students will learn about a wide variety of research methods such as close reading, listening, discourse analysis, archival research, translanguaging, and ethnography. These are tools that researchers draw upon to collect, analyze, and make meaning of cultural data. They are also methodologies that are the epistemic and theoretical interests driving the undertaking of research. Ultimately, students in this class will design and pilot a semester-long research study into a cultural phenomenon, both developing researchable questions and selecting appropriate methods to collect data about, interact with, parse, and analyze the rhetorics of everyday life, communities, and/or culture.

WRTG 4950
Social Histories of Rhetoric
Social histories of rhetoric focuses on non-Eurocentric rhetoric and discursive practices, as situated in space, time, social geographies, and everyday lived realities. This course examines not the essence of rhetoric or a system of rhetoric, but rather, attends critically to the socio-cultural exigencies that enable rhetorical activity. Attentive to the question, what do people do in and with rhetoric, we will pursue three lines of inquiry: (1) under what circumstances are rhetorical practices employed and utilized by communities? (2) what rhetorical options are available to communities to express and assert themselves and how is transmission of rhetorical practices facilitated? (3) how does rhetoric reach, if at all, its intended audience, and towards what possibilities does it do so? WRTG 4950 focuses on varying topics based on faculty expertise. Prior to taking this class, Writing & Rhetoric Studies majors are strongly encouraged to take WRTG 3875. Non-majors should consider taking an upper-division theory course in their program prior to taking this class.
